Chapter 115
Luigi Vampa's Bill of Fare

We awake from every sleep except the one dreaded by
Danglars . He awoke . To a Parisian accustomed to silken
curtains , walls hung with velvet drapery , and the soft
perfume of burning wood , the white smoke of which diffuses
itself in graceful curves around the room , the appearance of
the whitewashed cell which greeted his eyes on awakening
seemed like the continuation of some disagreeable dream . But
in such a situation a single moment suffices to change the
strongest doubt into certainty . " Yes , yes , " he murmured , " I
am in the hands of the brigands of whom Albert de Morcerf
spoke . " His first idea was to breathe , that he might know
whether he was wounded . He borrowed this from " Don Quixote , "
the only book he had ever read , but which he still slightly
remembered .


Four hours passed by and the giant was replaced by another
bandit . Danglars , who really began to experience sundry
gnawings at the stomach , arose softly , again applied his eye
to the crack of the door , and recognized the intelligent
countenance of his guide . It was , indeed , Peppino who was
preparing to mount guard as comfortably as possible by
seating himself opposite to the door , and placing between
his legs an earthen pan , containing chick-pease stewed with
bacon . Near the pan he also placed a pretty little basket of
Villetri grapes and a flask of Orvieto . Peppino was
decidedly an epicure . Danglars watched these preparations
and his mouth watered . " Come , " he said to himself , " let me
try if he will be more tractable than the other ; " and he
tapped gently at the door . " On y va , " coming exclaimed
Peppino , who from frequenting the house of Signor Pastrini
understood French perfectly in all its idioms .

Danglars immediately recognized him as the man who had
called out in such a furious manner , " Put in your head !" But
this was not the time for recrimination , so he assumed his
most agreeable manner and said with a gracious smile ,
" Excuse me , sir , but are they not going to give me any
dinner ? "
